.TH "DOCKER" "1" " Docker User Manuals" "Docker Community" "JUNE 2014"  ""

.SH NAME
.PP
docker\-exec \- Run a command in a running container

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker exec\fP
[\fB\-d\fP|\fB\-\-detach\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-\-help\fP]
[\fB\-i\fP|\fB\-\-interactive\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-t\fP|\fB\-\-tty\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-u\fP|\fB\-\-user\fP[=\fIUSER\fP]]
CONTAINER COMMAND [ARG...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Run a process in a running container.

.PP
The command started using \fB\fCdocker exec\fR will only run while the container's primary
process (\fB\fCPID 1\fR) is running, and will not be restarted if the container is restarted.

.PP
If the container is paused, then the \fB\fCdocker exec\fR command will wait until the
container is unpaused, and then run

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-detach\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Detached mode: run command in the background. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fP
  Print usage statement

.PP
\fB\-i\fP, \fB\-\-interactive\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Keep STDIN open even if not attached. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-tty\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Allocate a pseudo\-TTY. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-u\fP, \fB\-\-user\fP=""
   Sets the username or UID used and optionally the groupname or GID for the specified command.

.PP
The followings examples are all valid:
   \-\-user [user | user:group | uid | uid:gid | user:gid | uid:group ]

.PP
Without this argument the command will be run as root in the container.

.PP
The \fB\-t\fP option is incompatible with a redirection of the docker client
standard input.

.SH HISTORY
.PP
November 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
