.TH "DOCKER" "1" " Docker User Manuals" "Docker Community" "JUNE 2014"  ""

.SH NAME
.PP
docker\-attach \- Attach to a running container

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker attach\fP
[\fB\-\-help\fP]/
[\fB\-\-no\-stdin\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-\-sig\-proxy\fP[=\fItrue\fP]]
CONTAINER

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBdocker attach\fP command allows you to attach to a running container using
the container's ID or name, either to view its ongoing output or to control it
interactively.  You can attach to the same contained process multiple times
simultaneously, screen sharing style, or quickly view the progress of your
daemonized process.

.PP
You can detach from the container (and leave it running) with \fB\fCCTRL\-p CTRL\-q\fR
(for a quiet exit) or \fB\fCCTRL\-c\fR which will send a \fB\fCSIGKILL\fR to the container.
When you are attached to a container, and exit its main process, the process's
exit code will be returned to the client.

.PP
It is forbidden to redirect the standard input of a \fB\fCdocker attach\fR command while
attaching to a tty\-enabled container (i.e.: launched with \fB\fC\-t\fR).

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-\-help\fP
  Print usage statement

.PP
\fB\-\-no\-stdin\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Do not attach STDIN. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-\-sig\-proxy\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Proxy all received signals to the process (non\-TTY mode only). SIGCHLD, SIGKILL, and SIGSTOP are not proxied. The default is \fItrue\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES.SH Attaching to a container
.PP
In this example the top command is run inside a container, from an image called
fedora, in detached mode. The ID from the container is passed into the \fBdocker
attach\fP command:

.PP
.RS

.nf
# ID=$(sudo docker run \-d fedora /usr/bin/top \-b)
# sudo docker attach $ID
top \- 02:05:52 up  3:05,  0 users,  load average: 0.01, 0.02, 0.05
Tasks:   1 total,   1 running,   0 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
Cpu(s):  0.1%us,  0.2%sy,  0.0%ni, 99.7%id,  0.0%wa,  0.0%hi,  0.0%si,  0.0%st
Mem:    373572k total,   355560k used,    18012k free,    27872k buffers
Swap:   786428k total,        0k used,   786428k free,   221740k cached

PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND
1 root      20   0 17200 1116  912 R    0  0.3   0:00.03 top

top \- 02:05:55 up  3:05,  0 users,  load average: 0.01, 0.02, 0.05
Tasks:   1 total,   1 running,   0 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
Cpu(s):  0.0%us,  0.2%sy,  0.0%ni, 99.8%id,  0.0%wa,  0.0%hi,  0.0%si,  0.0%st
Mem:    373572k total,   355244k used,    18328k free,    27872k buffers
Swap:   786428k total,        0k used,   786428k free,   221776k cached

PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND
1 root      20   0 17208 1144  932 R    0  0.3   0:00.03 top

.fi
.RE

.SH HISTORY
.PP
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
