.TH "DOCKER" "1" " Docker User Manuals" "Docker Community" "FEBRUARY 2015"  ""

.SH NAME
.PP
docker\-ps \- List containers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker ps\fP
[\fB\-a\fP|\fB\-\-all\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-\-before\fP[=\fIBEFORE\fP]]
[\fB\-\-help\fP]
[\fB\-f\fP|\fB\-\-filter\fP[=\fI[]\fP]]
[\fB\-l\fP|\fB\-\-latest\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-n\fP[=\fI\-1\fP]]
[\fB\-\-no\-trunc\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-q\fP|\fB\-\-quiet\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-s\fP|\fB\-\-size\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-\-since\fP[=\fISINCE\fP]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
List the containers in the local repository. By default this show only
the running containers.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-a\fP, \fB\-\-all\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Show all containers. Only running containers are shown by default. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-\-before\fP=""
   Show only container created before Id or Name, include non\-running ones.

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fP
  Print usage statement

.PP
\fB\-f\fP, \fB\-\-filter\fP=[]
   Provide filter values. Valid filters:
                          exited= \- containers with exit code of
                          label= or label==
                          status=(restarting|running|paused|exited)
                          name= \- container's name
                          id= \- container's ID

.PP
\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-latest\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Show only the latest created container, include non\-running ones. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-n\fP=\-1
   Show n last created containers, include non\-running ones.

.PP
\fB\-\-no\-trunc\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Don't truncate output. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Only display numeric IDs. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-size\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Display total file sizes. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-\-since\fP=""
   Show only containers created since Id or Name, include non\-running ones.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SH Display all containers, including non\-running
.PP
.RS

.nf
# docker ps \-a
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                 COMMAND                CREATED             STATUS      PORTS    NAMES
a87ecb4f327c        fedora:20             /bin/sh \-c #(nop) MA   20 minutes ago      Exit 0               desperate\_brattain
01946d9d34d8        vpavlin/rhel7:latest  /bin/sh \-c #(nop) MA   33 minutes ago      Exit 0               thirsty\_bell
c1d3b0166030        acffc0358b9e          /bin/sh \-c yum \-y up   2 weeks ago         Exit 1               determined\_torvalds
41d50ecd2f57        fedora:20             /bin/sh \-c #(nop) MA   2 weeks ago         Exit 0               drunk\_pike

.fi
.RE

.SH Display only IDs of all containers, including non\-running
.PP
.RS

.nf
# docker ps \-a \-q
a87ecb4f327c
01946d9d34d8
c1d3b0166030
41d50ecd2f57

.fi
.RE

.SH Display only IDs of all containers that have the name \fB\fCdetermined\_torvalds\fR
.PP
.RS

.nf
# docker ps \-a \-q \-\-filter=name=determined\_torvalds
c1d3b0166030

.fi
.RE

.SH HISTORY
.PP
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
August 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
November 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
February 2015, updated by André Martins 
\[la]martins@noironetworks.com\[ra]
