.TH "DOCKER" "1" " Docker User Manuals" "Docker Community" "JUNE 2014"  ""

.SH NAME
.PP
docker\-login \- Register or log in to a Docker registry.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker login\fP
[\fB\-e\fP|\fB\-\-email\fP[=\fIEMAIL\fP]]
[\fB\-\-help\fP]
[\fB\-p\fP|\fB\-\-password\fP[=\fIPASSWORD\fP]]
[\fB\-u\fP|\fB\-\-username\fP[=\fIUSERNAME\fP]]
[SERVER]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Register or log in to a Docker Registry located on the specified
\fB\fCSERVER\fR.  You can specify a URL or a \fB\fChostname\fR for the \fB\fCSERVER\fR value. If you
do not specify a \fB\fCSERVER\fR, the command uses Docker's public registry located at
\fB\fChttps://registry\-1.docker.io/\fR by default.  To get a username/password for Docker's public registry, create an account on Docker Hub.

.PP
You can log into any public or private repository for which you have
credentials.  When you log in, the command stores encoded credentials in
\fB\fC$HOME/.dockercfg\fR on Linux or \fB\fC%USERPROFILE%/.dockercfg\fR on Windows.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-e\fP, \fB\-\-email\fP=""
   Email

.PP
\fB\-\-help\fP
  Print usage statement

.PP
\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-password\fP=""
   Password

.PP
\fB\-u\fP, \fB\-\-username\fP=""
   Username

.SH EXAMPLES.SH Login to a registry on your localhost
.PP
.RS

.nf
# docker login localhost:8080

.fi
.RE

.SH See also
.PP
\fBdocker\-logout(1)\fP to log out from a Docker registry.

.SH HISTORY
.PP
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
April 2015, updated by Mary Anthony for v2 
\[la]mary@docker.com\[ra]
