.TH "DOCKER" "1" " Docker User Manuals" "Docker Community" "JUNE 2014"  ""

.SH NAME
.PP
docker\-rm \- Remove one or more containers

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBdocker rm\fP
[\fB\-f\fP|\fB\-\-force\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-l\fP|\fB\-\-link\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
[\fB\-v\fP|\fB\-\-volumes\fP[=\fIfalse\fP]]
CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBdocker rm\fP will remove one or more containers from the host node. The
container name or ID can be used. This does not remove images. You cannot
remove a running container unless you use the \\fB\-f\\fR option. To see all
containers on a host use the \fBdocker ps \-a\fP command.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\-\-help\fP
  Print usage statement

.PP
\fB\-f\fP, \fB\-\-force\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Force the removal of a running container (uses SIGKILL). The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-link\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Remove the specified link and not the underlying container. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.PP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-volumes\fP=\fItrue\fP|\fIfalse\fP
   Remove the volumes associated with the container. The default is \fIfalse\fP.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
##Removing a container using its ID##

.PP
To remove a container using its ID, find either from a \fBdocker ps \-a\fP
command, or use the ID returned from the \fBdocker run\fP command, or retrieve
it from a file used to store it using the \fBdocker run \-\-cidfile\fP:

.PP
.RS

.nf
docker rm abebf7571666

.fi
.RE

.PP
##Removing a container using the container name##

.PP
The name of the container can be found using the \fBdocker ps \-a\fP
command. The use that name as follows:

.PP
.RS

.nf
docker rm hopeful\_morse

.fi
.RE

.SH HISTORY
.PP
April 2014, Originally compiled by William Henry (whenry at redhat dot com)
based on docker.com source material and internal work.
June 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
July 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
August 2014, updated by Sven Dowideit 
\[la]SvenDowideit@home.org.au\[ra]
